---title: Forest Percentageversion: 2016category: Conceptsoriginal_file: 206_Forest Percentage_2016.md---The forest percentage specifies the mix of forest and agriculturalsystems within a mixed plot (see Plots, Systems, Layers, andPools and Configurethe Plot).**Introduction**The concept of the "forest percentage" arises only in a mixedmulti-layer plot. A mixed multi-layer plot has a multi-layer forestsystem and a multi-layer agricultural system. The relative mix of thetwo systems is expressed as the forest percentage --- the forestpercentage is the means of saying how much of the plot is covered byforest, and the rest is agricultural. For example, if the forestpercentage is 30% then the agricultural percentage is 70%.**Definition**The *forest percentage* is defined as the percentage of the plot coveredby the tree canopy.For example, a plot with 10 ha of forest and 30 ha of agriculturalsystem has a forest percentage of 25% (because 10 / 40 = 25% of the plotis forest).**Discussion**The forest percentage is the percentage of the sunlight going to thetrees. In the plot simulator, if the forest fraction (100 times theforest percentage) is *f* then:- Tree production (growth) is *f* times what it would be if the plotwere a forest plot.- Crop production (growth) is (1 -- *f* ) times what it would be if theplot were wholly agricultural.Thus the forest percentage partitions the total production in the twosystems (forest and agricultural).For example, suppose a mixed plot has the forest fraction equal to 30%.Then the forest growth is 30% of what it would be if the whole plot wereforest, and the agricultural growth is 70% of what it would be if thewhole plot were agricultural. No non-growth processes are affected bythe forest percentage.The forest percentage can vary with time in response to events (seeForest Percentage Change).Forest percentage change events are typically connected to land clearingor revegetation. For example, clearing all of a mixed plot that is allforest and planting a crop on all the land changes the forest percentageof the plot from 100% to 0%.Notice that the definition and the use of the forest percentage by theplot simulator (which is **effectively** the definition of forestpercentage in the model) do not necessarily agree. This can lead to sometraps for the unwary modeller, because it is up to you to ensure thatthey do agree at all times. For example, you could use a forestpercentage change event on a plot with trees to change from 100% to 10%.The plot simulator now gives the trees only 10% of the plot production,and potentially 90% of the plot production goes to any crop, so unlessthe forest percentage change was accompanied by a thin event this wouldnot make any sense. Even worse, if the trees on the plot were near theirbiomass limit before the forest percentage change then they would begrossly over the biomass limit after the change (because the biomasslimit is a product of the maximum biomass per hectare and the forestfraction) and so most of the forest would instantly turn to debris inthe model!The amount of carbon in the forest trees, debris, soil, and products isnot affected by the forest percentage, so changing the forest percentagedoes not change these. Even changing the forest percentage from 100% to0% does not affect the forest soil or the forest products.There is one exception to the above: The growth determined by the TreeYield Formula is not affected by theforest percentage: the tree growth is always exactly as specified by thetree yield formula, regardless of the forest percentage. This exceptionis because the tree yield formula predicts tree growth as linked to asite's ability to grow trees, and is already limited by the potentialto achieve different levels of canopy cover.