---title: Plots in the Estateversion: 2016category: Estateoriginal_file: 167_Plots in the Estate_2016.md---[*Plots in the estate* of the input window of an estate document]This page is for specifying the plots in an estate.**Introduction**An estate is a collection of plots, each of which has an area and astarting time. For example, you may have plots for plantations ofdifferent species of trees on various sites, and your estate may be allof the plantations belonging to a certain timber grower.The listing on the left shows all of the plots in the estate, one perline. Plots whose starting time is before the estate simulation startsare coloured light-blue. Plots whose starting time is after the estatesimulation ends are coloured dull orange.Plots that are not ready for simulation are shown in red: edit them tocorrect missing or invalid data.To add a plot to the estate use the 'New...' button. After pressingthe 'New...', a dialog box opens in which a Start Time for the plotis specified by entering the Calender year and simulation step withinthat year when the plot was initiated. The Area of the plot is entered.The Plot File is selected from the drop down list. Press 'OK...' toaccept the clause and enter the Plot file, its area and start time intothe estate.To alter the Area or Start Time of a plot file within the estate, pressthe 'Edit...' button and alter the values that appear in the dialogbox as required.The 'Clone...' button can be used to enter an exact copy of the plotfile into the estate. This is useful when multiple plots of the sametree or crop type with different areas or start times need to bespecified within the estate.To remove a plot from the estate, select the plot and then press the'Delete...' button.The All Plots and Selected Plots boxes to the right of the list providea summary of the number of plots and area of plots in the estate orselected.**The Estate Simulation**Simulate the estate by choosing *Run Simulation* from the *Simulate*menu (if that menu choice is greyed-out then the estate is not ready ---attend to anything marked in red).Each plot in the list of plots is simulated in turn. The results foreach plot, over the whole of the estate simulation period, are addedtogether to form the estate results, which are reported as the estateoutputs.The estate timing is used to simulate every plot in the estate,overriding the plot timing in each plot. That is, the plot simulationwill start at the time dictated by the time specified in the estate plotwindow. The alignment of plot and estate timings is very difficult ifcalendar (actual year instead of time since commencement) timing is usedin plot files. It is recommended that plot files for use in estates bedeveloped or converted to remove calendar dates and that FullCAM usersspecify time since commencement instead.Each plot simulation within the estate simulation begins at the startyear and start step of the plot, called the *start time* of the plot.There are three possibilities for the start time of the plot and estatesimulation period. One of two types of timing can be applied toindividual 'Plots in the Estate' - Plot Timing and Estate Timing. Thetiming option can be toggled between by selecting any number of plots inthe 'Plots in the Estate' window, right clicking on the selected plotsand choosing either 'Use Plot Timing' or 'Use Estate Timing'.If Plot Timing is chosen there are three possibilities for the starttime of the plot and estate simulation period:1.  Plot start time is before the estate start time. The plot simulationbegins at the start plot time and ends at the end of the estatesimulation period, but the plot results only contribute to theestate totals during the estate simulation period.2.  Plot start time is after the estate start time but before the estatestop time. From the estate start time to the plot start time, theplot contributes the initial conditions of the plot to the estatetotal --- that is, the plot is assumed to be frozen at its startingpoint for all of that time. The plot is simulated from its starttime to the end time of the estate simulation period, during whichthe plot results contribute to the estate totals.3.  Plot start time is after the estate stop time. The start time of theplot is after the end time of the estate simulation period. Duringall of the estate simulation period, the plot contributes thestarting conditions of the plot to the estate total --- that is, theplot is assumed to be frozen at its starting point for all of theestate simulation period. The plot is not simulated during theestate simulation.If 'Use Estate Timing' is chosen then the plot start time will begin atthe estate start time. However, unlike using Plot start time, the plotdoes not remain frozen at the starting point of the initial conditions.Instead normal plot dynamics will occur from the beginning of the estatesimulation, and the 'Start Year' and 'Start Step' of the plot willdetermine when the event queue for the plot begins to simulate.When the plot results are added to the estate totals, the plot resultsin units (usually tonnes) per hectare are multiplied by the plot area(in hectares) and then added to the corresponding estate total in units.See Estate Simulation.**Times: Growth time-series and Events**A single plot file can be used many times in an estate, and each ofthese plots may have a different start time. If any of the speciestime-series (see Growth Properties) orevents (such as planting or thinning) are specified in terms of calendaryears then the plot file might become invalid (and thus not ready forsimulation) for some plot start times. If this occurs, FullCAM willnotify you and then abandon the estate simulation.To avoid this possibility, in your plot files you should specify:- The species time-series using times since planting- Events in terms of time since the start of the simulation.Use species or event timing in terms of calendar years with caution,because they must make sense in terms of how the plot file is used inthe estate simulation.**Example**. Suppose you have a plot file for a plantation forest, inwhich all the time-series data (such as rainfall) and events (such asforest fires) are specified in terms of years since the start of thesimulation. You then create an estate, simulated from 1940 to 2000, withthree plots that use this same plot file:1.  10 ha, starting in 19402.  20 ha, starting in 19503.  30 ha, starting in 1960.The plot file will then be simulated in the estate three times, and eachresult will be the same, except displaced 10 years apart. Thus, the 1940plot in 1970 will be identical to the 1950 plot in 1980 and the 1960plot in 1990 (despite differing in size)..Now suppose you add a forest fire to the plot file, but specify it asoccurring in 1956 (a calendar year). Now when you run the estate, eachof the three simulations will be different --- in the 1940 plantationthe forest fire in 1956 occurs in the 16th year of the plantation, inthe 1950 plantation the forest fire in 1956 occurs in the 6th year ofthe plantation, in the 1960 plantation the forest fire in 1956 does notoccur (remember, a plot contributes its starting conditions to eachestate simulation step before the plot simulation starts, so the 1960plot would show no effects from the 1956 fire).