---title: Soil Inputsversion: 2016category: Soiloriginal_file: 193_Soil Inputs_2016.md---[Soil page : *Forest* or *Agricultural* panel :*Inputs* button]Specify the material that enters the soil. See theRothC soil pool abbreviations.**Soil Input Percentages of Broken-Down Litter**Specify where the broken-down litter goes to within the active soil.The material in each litter pool breaks down, thereby transportingmaterial from the litter to the soil. This material, the broken-downlitter, can enter the DPM, RPM or HUM pools within the soil. Here, youspecify, for each type of broken down litter, which of these soil poolsthe broken-down litter enters.The decomposable (resistant) broken-down litter always goes to eitherthe DPM (RPM) or the HUM.Naturally, the sum of each pair of percentages is 100%. Therefore theHUM percentage is calculated automatically from the DPM/RPM value.**Manure from Offsite**Manure from offsite (from outside the plot) may be added to the forestor agricultural soil. Offsite manure inputs are only available if RothCis used to model the soil.Enter the time-series of manure carbon additions or add manureapplication events to the 'Events' tab depending on how manureadditions were configured in the 'Events' or time-series window of the'Configuration Tab'Manure from offsite may be added to the forest or agricultural soil.Enter the carbon mass in the manure, in tonnes per hectare, over time.'Offsite' means 'from outside the plot'. Offsite manure inputs areonly available if Roth C is used to model the soil.In an agricultural system, manure from animals on the plot is dealt withby grazing events (plant material eaten by grazing animals becomesfodder, which may move to destinations including the DPM an RPM pools ofthe soil). The offsite manure is the only explicit treatment of manureby FullCAM.Specify the percentages of the carbon in any offsite manure added to thesoil that move to the various organic soil components. That is, specifythe percentages of the carbon in the manure that are in the form of thevarious soil components, when added to the soil. The percentages add to100%; the HUM percentage is automatically calculated from the others.**Plant Residues**Plant residue inputs are plant material from the debris that enters thesol. The material enters the DPM soil pool if it is decomposable, orthe RPM soil pool if it is resistant. Specify the total amount of plantmaterial entering the soil over time.Plant residues can only be specified here if you are simulating theSoil by itself. If you are simulating a multi-layersystem, then the plant residues from the debris are automaticallycalculated, so an explicit input for plant residues is neither requirednor desired.The ratio of DPM to RPM is the mass of DPM divided by the mass of RPM inthe plant matter added to the soil, and is also known as the "qualityfactor for incoming plant debris". Typical values for the ratio of DPMto RPM are:1.44 - Most agricultural crops and improved grassland0.67 - Unimproved grassland and scrub (including savanna)0.25 - Deciduous and tropical woodland.