---
title: RothC
version: 2020
category: soil
original_file: 114_RothC_2020.md
---

The RothC Soil model is one of the Constituent Models In FullCAM.

**Description**

The Rothamsted Carbon Model (RothC) model is a soil carbon model. RothC models the turnover of organic carbon in non-waterlogged soils, taking into account clay content, temperature, moisture content, plant and manure inputs, and plant cover. RothC tracks the amount of microbes and several soil pools containing active carbon. In FullCAM it has been extended to also track nitrogen by applying C:N ratios.

**Active Soil Pools**

RothC partitions the active soil into five components (soil pools):

| Component | Description               |
|-----------|---------------------------|
| DPM       | decomposable plant matter |
| RPM       | resistant plant matter    |
| BIO-F     | fast decomposing biomass  |
| BIO-S     | slow decomposing biomass  |
| HUM       | humified organic matter.  |

The definitions of these soil pools can be found through the Rothamsted website and manual.

The DPM pool tends to small and transient, decomposing easily, with material moving quickly from DPM to BIO-F, BIO-S, and HUM.

The RPM pool is sometimes called *particulate organic matter* (POM) elsewhere.

Typically the fraction of total soil carbon in the BIO-F and BIO-S pools is very small --- these are small but very active pools of microbes. In practice it is often difficult to measure BIO-F and BIO-S.

The RothC model is always version 26.3 of RothC in the standard edition of FullCAM. In the Research Edition of FullCAM you have the option of using either version 26.3 or version 26.5 of RothC.

**Inert Soil**

The inert soil is all in the inert pool in FullCAM (see Soil). The inert material is sometimes called "charcoal and charred plant material" (CHAR) elsewhere. In FullCAM the inert pool is outside of RothC --- it is instead managed by CAMFor or CAMAg --- even though the RothC model elsewhere has an inert pool. The inert pool is simply a reservoir of soil material that is very unlikely to move to any other pool in the foreseeable future. It mainly consists of charcoal or material that is physically encapsulated.

**Credits**

The RothC model within FullCAM implements the FORTRAN programs "ROTHC-26.3" and "ROTHC-26.5_32" by K.W. Coleman, D.S Jenkinson, L.C. Parry and J.H. Rayner. It draws on papers by Jenkinson and Coleman, amongst others.

The model was enhanced by the CSIRO in Adelaide (Jan Skjemstad) and the Department. Enhancements include the ability to use the historical weather time series rather than average weather, including the topsoil moisture deficit (TSMD) computations, and tracking nitrogen. Equilibrium and radiocarbon dating computations were omitted.
