---
title: About
version: 2020
category: general
original_file: 11_About_2020.md
---

This page is for your notes about the document. What you enter on this
page has no effect on simulations.

**Name**

Use this area of the 'About' tab to enter a descriptive name for the
Plot. The name has no significance outside this page. The name entered
is not the name by which the plot is saved nor is it used to label any
output.

**Notes**

Notes are purely for recording relevant aspects of a FullCAM simulation.
FullCAM completely disregards these notes for all computational
purposes; they have no effect on any simulation.

Consider including:

- Purpose of the document
- Data sources
- Unusual characteristics of the document or simulation result
- Key assumptions made in preparing the document
- Uncertainties inherent in the document.

**Lock Document**

Checking the *Lock Document* checkbox will immediately lock the
document, which will:

1.  Replace the *Lock Document* checkbox with a notice that includes:
    - Notice that the document is locked
    - The time of locking
    - A security identifier that uniquely identifies this locking
      action.
2.  Save the document immediately.
3.  Prevent the document from ever being saved again.

While working with a locked document, changes can be made and simulation
completed using the changed run parameters; however, the changes cannot
be saved under the original name of the locked document.

You will still be able to save the document to a different name using
*Save As*, so you will be able to use it as a template for other
documents.
