---
title: Agricultural Fire
version: 2020
category: events
original_file: 149_Agricultural Fire_2020.md
---

Enter the inputs specific to an agricultural fire event.

**Affected Portion**

The affected portion is the fraction of the agricultural system in which
the fire takes place. It is typically the fraction of the plot area that
is burnt or partly burnt.

**Destination Percentages in the Affected Portion**

These destination percentages are applied to the portion of the
agricultural system that is affected by the fire.

The crop material that is affected by the fire either moves to the
atmosphere, moves to the debris, or remains where it is. The debris and
mulch material either moves to the atmosphere, to the inert soil (as
charcoal), or remains where it is. The sum of the two destination
percentages for a single pool must be less than or equal to 100%.

Material is moved from the crop to the debris after the amounts of
debris that move have been calculated. Crop material cannot go
immediately to the inert soil as a result of a fire.

**Example**. The portion of the agricultural system that is affected by
the fire is 90%. The GBF destination percentages are 80 to the
atmosphere and 10 to the debris --- for a total stem destination
percentage of 90. Then, of all the GBF material on the plot, in this
fire 90% \* 80% = 72% goes to the atmosphere, 90% \* 10% = 9% becomes
GBF litter, and the remaining (100% -- 90%) + 90% \* (100% -- 90%) = 19%
stays where it was.

Typically very little if any of the deep minerals will be lost to the
atmosphere, and only a small portion or none of the shallow minerals.

**Clearing Fire**

For a fire to clear the agricultural system entirely of crop, the
affected portion must be 100% and the destination percentages for each
pool (the sum of the destination percentages to the atmosphere and to
the debris) must sum to 100%.
