---title: Forest Productivity Indexversion: 2020category: siteoriginal_file: 188_Forest Productivity Index_2020.md---This Time Series Window is where enter the forest productivity index (FPI) for the plot.**Forest Productivity Index (FPI)**This window provides options for computing the FPI, which is required if the tree yield formula is used to compute tree growth. It is a simplified variant of the 3PG model and produces a time-series (monthly or annual) index that is equivalent to a site class.As an alternative to calculating the FPI, a value from the NCAS modelling can be obtained for the latitude and longitude specified in the Data Builder window.**Details**The FPI is used if the tree production method is the Tree Yield Formula and the FPI is not calculated from scratch (see Configure Tree Production).The FPI is a dimensionless measure of site productivity due to soil, sunlight, rainfall, evaporation, and frost. The FPI varies during the year. The FPI is described in NCAS Technical Report No.27, with recent updates being described by Paul and Roxburgh (2019).Improved FullCAM-prediction of woody growth increments. Report prepared for the Department of the Environment and Energy. CSIRO Land and Water, Canberra.Enter the FPI as an "annualised rate", which is what the FPI would be if it continued at that rate for a whole year. Thus the FPI is like temperature (if only the annual figure is given, the annual figure applies in each month), rather than like rainfall (if only the annual figure is given, one twelfth of the annual figure in each month). In FullCAM, the FPI is always reported as an annualised rate.FPI values range from 0 to 100, but the average FPI over a year rarely exceeds 25. On a good site the FPI might vary between 6 in a poor month to 60 in the best month. However the average of the FPI over a year is rarely more than 25. Thus the yearly average of the numbers you enter should only exceed 25 for exceptionally productive sites.If actual site data is available, enter it in this time series. If not, use Data Builder to download estimated monthly FPI. The derivation of this data is described in NCAS Technical Report No.23.The FullCAM model utilises the Tree Yield Formula (Eq. 1, Waterworth et al. 2007) to predict increments in above-ground biomass (AGB) within forests, woodlands, shrublands and plantations.AGB = M x *y* x [exp(-k / A2) - exp(-k / A1) ] x (FPIt / FPIave) **Eq. 1**where, AGB = Current annual increment in above-ground biomass (AGB, Mg DM ha-1 year-1) M is the maximum AGB in undisturbed native vegetation (Mg DM ha-1), and for Australian vegetation is estimated as: M =(6.011 sqrt(FPIave) - 5.291)^2^ (Waterworth et al. 2007). *y* = value of the Type 2 multiplier to account for factors that increase growth potential at a given site (e.g. planting configuration, Snowdon 2002)A1, A2 = age (years) in year 1 and 2, respectively, etc. k = 2 x G - 1.25, where G = tree age of maximum growth rate (years), FPIt = Annual Forest Productivity Index over the period A1 to A2, and is the sum of site factors (soil type, fertility and climate) driving growth, regardless of the type of planting or its age (Kesteven and Landsberg 2004); and FPIave = mean long-term average annual forest productivity index, which is independent of age (Kesteven and Landsberg 2004).In FullCAM, inter-annual variation in climatic conditions (e.g. intermittent droughts) are accounted for by annually adjusting the TYF predicted increment in woody growth by the fraction:FPIt / FPIave **Eq. 2**Hence, in a drought year where FPIt < FPIave, the growth increments are adjusted down.Across the period of simulation, the average increment multiplier given in Eq. 2 needs to be close to 1.0 to enable the default TYF curve to attain the expected long-term maximum above-ground biomass of the stand (M) is attained. Due to the formulation of FullCAM's TYF, M will not be achieved if FPIave is less than the mean of the FPIt values for the years across which the simulation is run. Running a simulation over a period across which the average of the FPIt values are x% lower (or higher) than the FPIave will, for all years, result in biomass predictions that are x% lower (or higher than) the default TYF curve with a maximum AGB equal to M. Care is therefore required when considering the definition of FPIave. The definition of FPIave applied in the TYF is the average of the FPIt values between the years 1970 and 2017. This definition of FPIave is what is downloaded automatically from the Data Builder. However, for years for which there is no FPI data available, and where the user has selected to extrapolate FPI data based on the average, FPIt is taken to be the average of the FPIt values observed over the period of simulation. To enable this, an adjustment is applied to prevent the last year with an observed FPIt from having undue influence on estimates over time.